# RStudio-Link
This script creates a new dataset based upon data generated by the Smartlab - Nonlinear Complex Systems Laboratory.
For more information regarding the creators of that dataset, please see the information below: 

==================================================================
Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset
Version 1.0
==================================================================
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto.
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova.
Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.
activityrecognition@smartlab.ws
www.smartlab.ws
==================================================================

In brief, their dataset was generated from an experiment carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. 
Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone 
(Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, they captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial 
angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments were video-recorded to label the data manually.

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding
windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion 
components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed 
to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features
was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

A new summary dataset was created using the script provided. This new dataset includes data from all 30 volunteers. Of the 561 variables
generated from the original dataset, only those variables that reported mean and standard deviations were included in this new 
dataset. The new dataset reports the mean of those variables for each subject as they perform each activity, resulting in a table 
with 180 rows and 88 variables. 

For each record it is provided:  
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.
- Its activity label.
- An 86-feature vector with the mean measurement for each variable, each of which is described in the codebook.  
